---
layout: post
title: Rails 5.1, Docker, Carrierwave, and Amazon S3 Setup
featured-img: sleek
---

This is a step by step guide to incorporate Carrierwave with Amazon S3. I am also going to use Rails 5.1 with Docker. This guide assumes that you have some experience with Ruby on Rails applications.

Please install Docker on your computer by following this link: [docker-install](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/). I won't get into too much detail about Docker itself, but essentially we are using it to manage this application in an isolated container that packages all the dependencies (Gems and libraries). More information on Docker can be found: [here](https://docs.docker.com/). Reading some information could be helpful as we will also be using Docker terminal commands.

Carrierwave provides an easy way to upload file from Ruby or Ruby on Rails applications. Full documentation can be found Carrierwaves Github page: [carrierwave](https://github.com/carrierwaveuploader/carrierwave). After we get files uploaded locally, I will go over instructions on uploading these files to the cloud aka Amazon S3 (Simple Storage Service).

Now lets get to the good stuff!

We are going to start off a bit differently with this application and not jump right into `rails new` .... I am going to name this application, "Hiker". Mainly to give it a theme and try to avoid making a repetitive "Todo" application.

Create an empty directory where we will setup our Docker configuration:

```
mkdir hiker
cd hiker
```

We will define what will be included in the container with our `Dockerfile`:

```
touch Dockerfile
```

```docker
# Dockerfile

FROM ruby:2.3.3
RUN apt-get update -qq && apt-get install -y build-essential libpq-dev nodejs
RUN mkdir /hiker
WORKDIR /hiker
ADD Gemfile /hiker/Gemfile
ADD Gemfile.lock /hiker/Gemfile.lock
RUN bundle install
ADD . /hiker
```

Next, create the `Gemfile`:

```
touch Gemfile
```

```ruby
# Gemfile

source 'https://rubygems.org'
gem 'rails', '5.1.0'
```

Then create an empty `Gemfile.lock`:

```
touch Gemfile.lock
```

Last setup file, `docker-compose.yml`:

```
touch docker-compose.yml
```

```yaml
# docker-compose.yml

version: '2'
services:
  db:
    image: postgres
  web:
    build: .
    command: bundle exec rails s -p 3000 -b '0.0.0.0'
    volumes:
      - .:/hiker
    ports:
      - "3000:3000"
    depends_on:
      - db
```

As I said in the beginning, definitely check out [docs.docker.com](docs.docker.com) for more information on Docker.

Now that we have Docker configured. We can create our Rails application and build our container. Make sure this is done inside the directory you created.

```
docker-compose run web rails new . --force --database=postgresql
```

Run this command to run your local server and you should see a fresh Rails application!

```
docker-compose up
```

We are going to take advantage of using Rails scaffold. Lets create a Hike model:

```
docker-compose run web rails generate scaffold Hike name image
```

That will create a `hikes` table that will save the `name` and `image` of a Hike.

Lets create a local database so we can save some `hikes`. Due to some additional Docker setup, replace `config/database.yml` with:

```yaml
development: &default
  adapter: postgresql
  encoding: unicode
  database: myapp_development
  pool: 5
  username: postgres
  password:
  host: db

test:
  <<: *default
  database: myapp_test
```

Then create and migrate the database:

```
docker-compose run web rake db:create db:migrate
```

Now lets get Carrierwave setup so we can start saving images. All of this setup is found on Carrierwaves Github page.

Add Carrierwave as a dependency:

```ruby
# Gemfile
......
gem 'carrierwave', '~> 1.0'
```

Then update the dependencies and restart the server:

```
docker-compose build
```

We will now have to generate an uploader that will be involved in the uploading of files:

```
docker-compose run web rails generate uploader Image
```

Mount the uploader on the `Hike` model:

```ruby
class Hike < ApplicationRecord
  mount_uploader :image, ImageUploader
end
```

Navigate to line 21 in `app/views/hikes/_form.html.erb` and change the image input to a file input:

```rhtml
<%= form.file_field :image, id: :hike_image %>
```

Now lets test it out! In your browser go to `localhost:3000/hikes/new` and create a hike with a name and image.

That should be successful and you will be able to see your newly created hike with the image saving locally:

```sql
Hike Load (0.6ms)  SELECT  "hikes".* FROM "hikes" ORDER BY "hikes"."id" DESC LIMIT $1  [["LIMIT", 1]]
=> #<Hike id: 1, name: "Test", image: "IMG_0599.JPG", created_at: "2017-05-09 05:02:27", updated_at: "2017-05-09 05:02:27">
```

We accomplished the local setup and now its onto Amazon S3!

Go to your Amazon S3 account and create a S3 bucket. To offer support for Amazon Web Services we will use a gem called `fog-aws`.
In your `Gemfile` and run `docker-compose build`

```ruby
# Gemfile
....
gem "fog-aws"
```

Next, create an `initializer` and name it `carrierwave.rb`. Put this snippet in:

```ruby
# config/initializers/carrierwave.rb

CarrierWave.configure do |config|
  config.fog_provider = 'fog/aws'                        # required
  config.fog_credentials = {
      provider:              'AWS',                        # required
      aws_access_key_id:     'xxx',                        # required
      aws_secret_access_key: 'yyy',                        # required
  }
  config.fog_directory  = 'name_of_directory'                          # required
end
```

You will have to use environment variables for `aws_access_key_id`, `aws_secret_access_key`, and `fog_directory`.

In the `image_uploader.rb` change `storage :file` to `storage :fog`.

After all this setup make sure you restart the local server so the `carrierwave.rb` initializer will be loaded.

Prior to submitting a new upload, in your S3 bucket, create a folder and give it a name (for ex "images").

Navigate back to `/hikes/new` and create a new hike with an image. You will see that the image url saved with a Amazon AWS url. Check out your bucket and click into the folder you created and you should see the image!

If you would like to check out the codebase, go over to my Github page: [https://github.com/jd-gray/hiker](https://github.com/jd-gray/hiker).
